                                                                        DSS-34 (E) 04/17/2026 (page 1 of 3)




            Rent Reviews for CityFHEPS, FHEPS, and SOTA Programs
                       Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

What is a Rent Review?
The Department of Social Services (DSS) verifies that rents for apartments in New York City that
are subsidized through the CityFHEPS, FHEPS, and SOTA programs:
   •   Do not exceed rents for comparable unsubsidized apartments in the same building or
       neighborhood, and
   •   Do not exceed the maximum rent permitted for rent-subsidized apartments.

Why is a Rent Review done?
Rent reviews protect tenants from excessive rent and safeguard taxpayer dollars by ensuring fair
market value.

When is a Rent Review done?
Rent reviews must be completed on units offered for clearance before applications for
(including but not limited to) CityFHEPS To Stay/To Move (including transfers), FHEPS To
Move (including transfers), and SOTA are submitted to DSS. Applications must pass the rent
review before submission. Rent reviews may also be required at subsidy or lease renewal.

How do I request a Rent Review?
Landlords, Brokers, and Providers offering an apartment or preparing a new subsidy
application on behalf of a client, go to https://a071-dhsapps.nyc.gov/apartmentoffers/ and
enter the required information.
Information collected as part of the standard subsidy renewal or lease renewal process will be
used to complete rent reviews.

What is the Rent Review Process?
   •   DSS first conducts a data match with the New York State Division of Housing and
       Community Renewal (HCR) to identify rent-stabilized apartments and their maximum
       legal rent. The rent may not exceed the maximum rent allowed.
   •   For market-rate apartments (apartments found as not rent stabilized in the HCR match),
       DSS compares proposed rents to the rents currently charged for comparable apartments
       in the area. This rent reasonableness test is done using www.affordablehousing.com, a
       web-based tool that complies with Federal rules.




                                          (Turn page)
DSS-34 (E) 04/17/2026 (page 2 of 3)                                            Department of Social Services
                                                                             Human Resources Administration




                Rent Reviews for CityFHEPS, FHEPS, and SOTA Programs
                      Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) (continued)
What if the tenant is remaining in the same unit?
If the tenant is applying for CityFHEPS, their application must include a rent review result.
Providers must go to https://a071-dhsapps.nyc.gov/apartmentoffers/ and enter the required
information including contact information, apartment information, utility information, and asking
rent. Offers submissions with missing or inaccurate information will require resubmission. After
the unit passes the rent review, the result form will be emailed to the contact provided in the
Offers submission. You must include this form with the CityFHEPS application before submitting
it to DSS.

How long does a rent review take?
The HCR data match can take up to up to 3 weeks.
If the application is for a client moving into a new apartment, the property will be checked for
violations and if it passes, the results of the property review will be returned even if the rent
review is still pending. This is so that the provider can proceed with the walkthrough. The rent
review will be completed after the data match with HCR. Afterwards, a new results form is sent
automatically to return the rent review results.
If the client is remaining in the same apartment, the results form will only include the rent
review results.




                       Important – when the client is moving into a new apartment
     If an apartment passes the property violations check, the provider should proceed with
                scheduling the walkthrough. Do not wait for the rent review result.




                                              (Turn page)
DSS-34 (E) 04/17/2026 (page 3 of 3)                                               Department of Social Services
                                                                                Human Resources Administration



                Rent Reviews for CityFHEPS, FHEPS, and SOTA Programs
                      Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) (continued)
What happens if I received a rent review fail result?
If the rent proposed at the time of Apartment Offers submission exceeds the maximum legal rent
or the rent is determined to be not reasonable for the area, the unit will fail the rent review. The
results form will include the maximum allowable rent that can be charged based on the HCR data
or rent reasonableness test.
For a new subsidy or transfer request the submitter may accept the allowable rent or submit
documentation that supports their proposed rent.

    •    For rent-stabilized apartments – Email rentreview@hra.nyc.gov to accept the allowable
         rent or submit documentation showing the rent that you are charging is allowed.
    •    For market-rate apartments - Email rentreview@hra.nyc.gov to accept the allowable rent
         or submit the Rent Comparable Form (DSS-35) with details on 3 similar units to support
         your proposed rent.
    •    At subsidy or lease renewal, DSS will compare renewal rent amounts to the HCR
         maximum legal rent for that unit.
    •    Rents will not be allowed to exceed the HCR maximum legal rent and will be lowered to
         the HCR maximum if necessary.
    •    If it is a market-rate apartment and the requested rent exceeds the reasonable amount,
         the staff working on the renewal application will notify the landlord and provide instructions
         on how to accept the allowable rent or submit the DSS-35 to DSS.

Can a landlord/owner charge tenants more than the approved Contract Rent?
No. Tenants must be charged only the amount authorized by DSS. Unauthorized side payments
or “side deals” for rent must be refunded to the tenant. These types of side deals may adversely
affect the landlord’s future participation in the program.
